Add SIG Contribex Spotlight blog article (#418)
kubernetes/contributor-site: content/en/blog/2023/sig-contribex-spotlight.md

---
layout: blog
title: "Spotlight on SIG ContribEx"

> date: 2023-08-22

Reviewer: ```suggestion
date: 2023-08-14
```
If we can get this in before the next release, it'll help. Otherwise, let's wait until the post-release blog series has gone out.

Author: Agreed.

Experience](https://github.com/kubernetes/community/blob/master/sig-contributor-experience/README.md)
(SIG ContribEx), an essential component of the Kubernetes project.

SIG ContribEx in Kubernetes is responsible for developing and
maintaining a healthy and productive community of contributors to the
project. This involves identifying and addressing bottlenecks that may
hinder the project's growth and feature velocity, such as pull request
latency and the number of open pull requests and issues.

SIG ContribEx works to improve the overall contributor experience by
creating and maintaining guidelines, tools, and processes that
facilitate collaboration and communication among contributors. They
also focus on community building and support, including outreach
programs and mentorship initiatives to onboard and retain new
contributors.

Ultimately, the role of SIG ContribEx is to foster a welcoming and
inclusive environment that encourages contribution and supports the
long-term sustainability of the Kubernetes project.

In this blog post, [Fyka Ansari](https://twitter.com/1fyka) interviews
[Kaslin Fields](https://twitter.com/kaslinfields), a DevRel Engineer

> at Google who serves as the Chair of SIG ContribEx and [Madhav

Reviewer: ```suggestion
at Google, who is a chair of SIG ContribEx, and [Madhav
```
adapted from https://github.com/kubernetes/website/pull/42522/files#r1292837546

> In this blog post, [Fyka Ansari](https://twitter.com/1fyka) interviews
> [Kaslin Fields](https://twitter.com/kaslinfields), a DevRel Engineer
> at Google who serves as the Lead of SIG ContribEx and [Madhav
> Jivrajani](https://twitter.com/MadhavJivrajani), a Software Engineer
> at VMWare who serves as the SIG ContribEx Tech Lead. This interview
> covers various aspects of SIG ContribEx, including current
> initiatives, exciting developments, and how interested individuals can
> get involved and contribute to the group. It provides valuable
> insights into the workings of SIG ContribEx and highlights the
> importance of its role in the Kubernetes ecosystem.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In this blog post, [Fyka Ansari](https://twitter.com/1fyka) interviews
[Kaslin Fields](https://twitter.com/kaslinfields), a DevRel Engineer
at Google who serves as the Chair of SIG ContribEx and [Madhav
Jivrajani](https://twitter.com/MadhavJivrajani), a Software Engineer
at VMWare who serves as a SIG ContribEx Tech Lead. This interview
covers various aspects of SIG ContribEx, including current
initiatives, exciting developments, and how interested individuals can
get involved and contribute to the group. It provides valuable
insights into the workings of SIG ContribEx and highlights the
importance of its role in the Kubernetes ecosystem.
```

Additionally, what skills can contributors expect to develop while
working with SIG ContribEx?

**Kaslin:** Skills folks need to have or will acquire vary depending
on what area of ContribEx they work upon. Even within a subproject, a
range of skills can be useful and/or developed. For example, the tech
lead role involves technical tasks and overseeing automation, while
the social media lead role requires excellent communication
skills. Working with SIG ContribEx allows contributors to acquire
various skills based on their chosen subproject. By participating in
meetings, listening, learning, and taking on tasks related to their
interests, they can develop and hone these skills. Some subprojects
may require more specialized skills, like program management for the
mentoring project, but all contributors can benefit from offering
their talents to help teach others and contribute to the community.

### Sub-projects under SIG ContribEx

**Fyka:** SIG ContribEx has several smaller projects. Can you tell me
about the aims of these projects and how they've impacted the
Kubernetes community?

**Kaslin:** Some SIGs have one or two subprojects and some have none

> at all, but in SIG ContribEx, we have ELEVEN!

Reviewer: ```suggestion
at all, but in SIG ContribEx, we have **eleven**!
```

    and operations.
2.  **Community management**: Handles communication platforms and
    policies for the community.
3.  **Contributor-comms**: Focuses on promoting the success of
    Kubernetes contributors through marketing.
4.  **Contributors-documentation**: Writes and maintains documentation
    for contributing to Kubernetes.
5.  **Devstats**: Maintains and updates the [Kubernetes
    statistics](https://k8s.devstats.cncf.io) website.
6.  **Elections**: Oversees community elections and maintains related
    documentation and software.
7.  **Events**: Organizes contributor-focused events like the
    Contributor Summit.
8.  **Github management**: Manages permissions, repositories, and
    groups on GitHub.
9.  **Mentoring**: Develop programs to help contributors progress in
    their contributions.
10.  **Sigs-GitHub-actions**: Repository for GitHub actions related to
     all SIGs in Kubernetes.
11.  **Slack-infra**: Creates and maintains tools and automation for
     Kubernetes Slack.

**Madhav:** Also, Devstats is critical from a sustainability
standpoint!

_(If you are willing to learn more and get involved with any of these
sub-projects, check out the_ [SIG ContribEx

> README](https://github.com/kubernetes/community/blob/master/sig-contributor-experience/README.md#subprojects))._

Reviewer: ```suggestion
README](https://github.com/kubernetes/community/blob/master/sig-contributor-experience/README.md#subprojects)).
```
